Use commands for container push (#3023)
theforeman/foreman-documentation: guides/common/modules/proc_using-container-registries.adoc

= Using container registries

Podman and Docker can be used to fetch content from container registries.
Containers are pushed to {Project}'s container registry.
The {Project} registry follows the Open Containers Initiative (OCI) specification, so you can push content to Katello by using the same methods that apply to other registries.
For more information about OCI, see https://opencontainers.org/[Open Container Initiative Distribution Specification].

.Prerequisites
* To push content to an organization or product, a user must have permissions to create repositories.

ifndef::orcharhino[]
.Container registries on {SmartProxies}
On {SmartProxies} with content, the https://github.com/Katello/smart_proxy_container_gateway[Container Gateway] {SmartProxy} plugin acts as the container registry.
It caches authentication information from Katello and proxies incoming requests to Pulp.
The Container Gateway is available by default on {SmartProxies} with content.
endif::[]

> .Limitations on container registries

Reviewer: Maybe something like:
```suggestion
.Limitations of pushing content to the {Project} container registry
```
The limitations that we're noting here are outside of the usual registry specification.

> * A repository in Katello is created after the content is pushed.

Reviewer: This is a statement on how the feature works rather than a limitation. Perhaps it should go down in the procedure to tell users to expect that a repository gets created in Katello.

> * Content is pulled as soon as it is pushed.

Reviewer: This was supposed to be:
```suggestion
* Content is pullable as soon as it is pushed.
```
which was just a way of saying that there shouldn't be any delay between pushing content and being able to pull it. I think it might be extra info that's not needed in the docs.

= Using container registries

Podman and Docker can be used to fetch content from container registries.

> Containers are pushed to {Project}'s container registry.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Containers are pushed to the {Project} container registry.
```

> Podman and Docker can be used to fetch content from container registries.
> Containers are pushed to the {Project} container registry.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
You can use Podman and Docker to fetch content from container registries and push the content to the {Project} container registry.
```

> The {Project} registry follows the Open Containers Initiative (OCI) specification, so you can push content to Katello by using the same methods that apply to other registries.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The {Project} registry follows the Open Containers Initiative (OCI) specification, so you can push content to {Project} by using the same methods that apply to other registries.
```

> For more information about OCI, see https://opencontainers.org/[Open Container Initiative Distribution Specification].

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For more information about OCI, see link:https://opencontainers.org/[Open Container Initiative Distribution Specification].
```

.Prerequisites
* To push content to an organization or product, a user must have permissions to create repositories.
The push permission is `edit_products`.
* To pull content, a user must have permissions as long as *unauthenticated pull* is set to off by default in the lifecycle environment.
The pull permissions are `view_lifecycle_environments`, `view_products`, `view_content_views`.

ifndef::orcharhino[]
.Container registries on {SmartProxies}
On {SmartProxies} with content, the https://github.com/Katello/smart_proxy_container_gateway[Container Gateway] {SmartProxy} plugin acts as the container registry.
It caches authentication information from Katello and proxies incoming requests to Pulp.
The Container Gateway is available by default on {SmartProxies} with content.
endif::[]

> .Limitations of pushing content to the {Project} container registry

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
.Considerations for pushing content to the {Project} container registry
```
or

```suggestion
.Guidelines for pushing content to the {Project} container registry
```

I'm thinking of how to frame this in a more neutral light, to avoid making it sound like the feature is not working properly. What do you think @bangelic, would this describe the purpose of the list accurately enough?

Author: @asteflova I think I like **Considerations** better :)

If you need pushed content on {SmartProxies} as well, use {SmartProxy} syncing.
* The pushed container name must contain only lowercase characters.
* Unless pushed repositories are published in a content view version, they do not follow the Registry Name Pattern.
This is to ensure that users can push and pull from the same path.
* Users are required to push and pull from the same path.
If a user uses the label-based schema, they pull using labels.
If a user uses the ID-based schema, they pull using IDs.

.Procedure
. Logging in to the container registry:
+
[options="nowrap", subs="+quotes,attributes"]
----
# podman login {foreman-example-com}
----

. Listing container images:
+
[options="nowrap", subs="+quotes,attributes"]
----
# podman search {foreman-example-com}/
----

. Pulling container images:
+
[options="nowrap", subs="+quotes,attributes"]
----
# podman pull {foreman-example-com}/my-image:<optional_tag>
----

. Pushing container images to the {Project} container registry:
* To indicate which organization, product, and repository the container image belongs to, include the organization and product in the container repository name.

> * Pushes follow one of two formats:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* Push accepts the following formats:
```

> * All labels are composed of entirely lowercase characters regardless of actual label capitalization.

Reviewer 2: Is this about an action that users must take? Like "Compose all labels entirely of lowercase chars"?

I'm asking because if this an action item for users, it should be written in imperative voice. If it's just an FYI item, then perhaps it doesn't need to be included at all..? It's a bit confusing: I'm reading this and I don't know if I'm being asked to do something here.

Author: It isn't an action by the user so much as that is how the labels are composed. I will remove it.

* Pushes follow one of two formats:

> [options="nowrap", subs="+quotes,attributes"]

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
+
[options="nowrap", subs="+quotes,attributes"]
```
The contents of the command blocks don't render properly. I think it might be because a plus sign is missing, can you please check? The same would also apply to the block below.

> # podman push _image_ _{foreman-example-com}_/_organization_label_/_product_label_/_repository_name_[:tag]

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
# podman push _image_ _{foreman-example-com}_/_organization_label_/_product_label_/_repository_name_[:_tag_]
```

# podman push _image_ _{foreman-example-com}_/id/<organization_id>/<product_id>/<repository_name>[:tag]
----

* An example of a complete push:
+
[options="nowrap", subs="+quotes,attributes"]
----
# podman push _d2c94e258dcb_ _{foreman-example-com}_/default_organization/test_product/hello-world:latest

> Getting image source signatures
> Copying blob ac28800ec8bb done   |
> Copying config d2c94e258d done   |
> Writing manifest to image destination

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```
We don't include outputs. I'm not sure why. And if we remove it, does it still make sense to include the example? Do we really need it?

----

> * A repository in Katello is created after the content is pushed.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A repository in Katello is created after the content is pushed.
```
I think this would work better as a separate para, to conclude the section on pushing.

= Using container registries

Podman and Docker can be used to fetch content from container registries.

> Containers are pushed to {Project}'s container registry.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Containers are pushed to the {Project} container registry.
```

= Using container registries

Podman and Docker can be used to fetch content from container registries.
Containers are pushed to {Project}'s container registry.

> The {Project} registry follows the Open Containers Initiative (OCI) specification, so content can be pushed to Katello using the same methods that apply to other registries.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The {Project} registry follows the Open Containers Initiative (OCI) specification, so you can push content to Katello by using the same methods that apply to other registries.
```

----
# podman pull {foreman-example-com}/my-image:<optional_tag>
----

Containers can be pushed to {Project}'s container registry.
The {Project} registry follows the Open Containers Initiative (OCI) specification, so content can be pushed to Katello using the same methods that apply to other registries.

> For more information about OCI, see https://opencontainers.org/[Open Container Initiative Distribution Specification].

Author: @asteflova I think the introduction of the module makes sense since, as you previously mentioned, the module's introduction covers only the previous scope of content.

----
# podman pull {foreman-example-com}/my-image:<optional_tag>
----

Pushing container images to the {Project} container registry:

* To indicate which organization, product, and repository the container image belongs to, use container namespaces.
* All labels are composed of entirely lowercase characters regardless of actual label capitalization.
* Pushes follow one of two formats:
[options="nowrap", subs="+quotes,attributes"]
----

> # podman push <image> example.com/<organization_label>/<product_label>/<repository_name>[:tag]

Reviewer 2: You should use _italics_ for example values that are to be replaced by users. I supposed that would look like this:
```suggestion
# podman push _image_ _example.com_/_organization_label_/_product_label_/_repository_name_[:tag]
```

Reviewer 2: Actually, the existing example commands in this module use {foreman-example-com}. Which would translate to:

```suggestion
# podman push _image_ _{foreman-example-com}_/_organization_label_/_product_label_/_repository_name_[:tag]
```

Reviewer 2: Please apply the italics and the attribute for example.com to your other command examples too.

# podman push <image> example.com/id/<organization_id>/<product_id>/<repository_name>[:tag]
----

> * A complete push looks like the following:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* An example of a complete push:
```
The meaning is basically the same, but using the keyword 'example' would really help users scan the text more quickly.

[options="nowrap", subs="+quotes,attributes"]
----
# podman push d2c94e258dcb example.com/default_organization/test_product/hello-world:latest
Getting image source signatures
Copying blob ac28800ec8bb done   |
Copying config d2c94e258d done   |
Writing manifest to image destination
----

> .Limitations on container registries

Reviewer 2: Can you move this subheading for it to be placed somewhere closer to the beginning of the module? I don't think the information here will be relevant after `.Procedure`, after users have run the command(s).

Reviewer 2: Also, feel free to reevaluate whether including the limitations as bullet points still works if/after you implement my suggestions. It's quite possible that after the edits, regular paragraphs will make more sense.

> * A repository in Katello is created once the content is pushed.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* A repository in Katello is created after the content is pushed.
```

> * If the organization or product does not exist, Katello sends an error telling the user to ensure the proper entities are created first.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```
I believe you don't need this line.

If Katello sends an error message about that and that message is helpful enough, users will know. (If the message is _not_ helpful enough, then the right thing to do is to fix that message rather than explain it's meaning in the docs.)

> * Subsequent pushes to the same repository updates the contents of that repository.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Subsequent pushes to the same repository update the contents of that repository.
```
This line and the ones above are tightly related so one bullet point would be enough.

Reviewer 2: But then again, do you really _need_ this line? I don't know much about container repositories, but doesn't pushing to the repository always mean that the repository gets updated? :shrug: I suggest to drop the line.

> * Content is pulled as soon as it is pushed.

Reviewer 2: This is curious. The procedure mentions pulling container images manually. Does this mean that when you push a container image, that image gets automatically pulled afterwards?

I don't know what to do about this sentence, but I felt the need to mention that it confused me in the context of the whole module :shrug:

Author: @ianballou Any chance you can provide some clarity here?

Reviewer: I added my thoughts on this to a review, let me know if there are lingering questions.

> * Content can only be pushed to the {Project} itself.
> * If pushed content needs to be on {SmartProxies} as well, use {SmartProxy} syncing.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* You can only push content to the {ProjectServer} itself.
If you need pushed content on {SmartProxies} as well, use {SmartProxy} syncing.
```

Reviewer 2: Line 64 immediately raised a question for me: How do I use SmartProxy syncing? Does the sync happen automatically, or do I start it manually?

If it happens automatically, I think you could actually drop this line. If it needs to be started manually, it would be good to explain how or add a link to another part of the docs that explains it.

Author: @ianballou Does SmartProxy syncing happen automatically or does the user need to do it manually?

> * Podman requires that all characters in the pushed container name contain only lowercase characters.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* The pushed container name must contain only lowercase characters.
```
I suppose you don't really need to mention Podman. The sentence is more straightforward without it.

> * To push content to an organization or product, a user must be able to create repositories.

Reviewer 2: I've seen information about user permissions included under a `.Prerequisite` heading in other modules. Can you create a heading like that and move this line there?

Also, how do I know that my user is able to create repositories? Are we talking about Foreman roles/permissions? Which ones?

Author: @ianballou Does a user know if they have permissions to create repositories? Specific role or permissions needed? I am pushing a commit to say that a user must have permissions to create repositories in order to push content to an organization or product.

Reviewer: A user indeed must have the same permissions necessary to create a repository. For creation, that would be `edit_products`.

Pulling content is the same way as long as the lifecycle environment in question has "unauthenticated pull" turned off (which is default).

Pull permissions: `view_lifecycle_environments`, `view_products`, `view_content_views`.

> * Unless pushed repositories are published in a content view version, they do not follow the Registry Name Pattern.
> * This is to ensure that users can push and pull from the same path.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Unless pushed repositories are published in a content view version, they do not follow the Registry Name Pattern.
This is to ensure that users can push and pull from the same path.
```

> * Users are required to push and pull from the same path.
> * If a user uses the label-based schema, they pull using labels.
> * If a user uses the ID-based schema, they pull using IDs.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Users are required to push and pull from the same path.
If a user uses the label-based schema, they pull using labels.
If a user uses the ID-based schema, they pull using IDs.
```

----
# podman pull {foreman-example-com}/my-image:<optional_tag>
----

Pushing container images to the {Project} container registry:

> * To indicate which organization, product, and repository the container image belongs to, use container namespaces.

Reviewer: "Container namespaces" isn't in the OCI container spec, so I think we can leave that term out.
```suggestion
* To indicate which organization, product, and repository the container image belongs to, include the organization and product in the container repository name.
```
